# portfolio

This portfolio link to four projects I created as assignments in my Web Development class this semester. 

The first, a personal website, is a simple website done with simple HTML and CSS, displaying information about my life. The link to the project is here: https://github.com/ande8036/ande8036.github.io

The second, a dynamic server and website, displays data from a sqlite database regarding US energy usage. It displays it in the form of tables and graphs. The repository is a clone of the original, as it was a partner project, and the original is not in my name. The link to the project is here: https://github.com/ande8036/dynamic-server-clone

The third, a server and API, functions as a way to send GET, PUT, and DELETE requests to a server, to manipulate and retrieve data from a sqlite database. The link to the project is here: https://github.com/ande8036/Project-3---RESTful-Server

The fourth, a web application, uses the API created in the previously mentioned project to display information retrieved in GET requests to a web page, as well as display that information on a table and map of St Paul. The repository is a clone of the original, as it was a partner project, and the original is not in my name. The link to the project is here: https://github.com/ande8036/webapp-clone

# reflection

The work done in each of the projects in this portfolio connects to the common good by way of making life easier for people. The projects themselves likely don't make anyones lives easier, however what I learned in the making of these projects allows my to make further projects that make people's lives easier. The first project, the personal website, had me learn how to use HTML and CSS, allowing me to make websites relatively easily. With the ability to make websites, I gain a skill that allows me to assist with almost any company, as these days, almost every brand needs a website. The ability to help more people is clearly aligned with the common good. The second project taught me to use different APIs to make more function websites and web applications. This extended the range of things I could do. In addition, more specifically, the page is useful in seeing energy usage statistics in an easy-to-understand way. This could be useful for expanding the knowledge and insight of people who use it. This obiously, is helpful for the common good. From a "domain-specific" point of view, according to my understanding of domain-specificity from Wikipedia, this would be useful to the field of statistics, as well as people learning statistics, with the "domain" being visual learning. The third project could be used by anyone who wants to access the data found in the given database without having to deal with sqlite3. Obviously, the ability to be used by anyone forwards the common good, but it also does so by helping retrieve information on crime, which could be referred to as "common bad". The fourth project helps with the common good the same way the third does, but it also makes it much more easy to use, as well as easy to understand visually. Being hmore helpfu than something already helpful is clearly good. The skills I learned across the projects could also be taught to others, which also forwards the common good. All in all, I think expanding my knowledge, and applying it towards useful applications, is definitely in line with St Thomas's ideals, as well as the common good.
